feat: add spreadsheet documentation (#1333)
vaadin/docs: articles/ds/components/spreadsheet/index.asciidoc

== Features

* Excel XLSX files, limited support for XLS files
* Support for Excel formulas
* Excel-like editing with keyboard support
* Lazy loading of cell data from server to browser in large spreadsheets
* Protected cells and sheets
* Handle changes in cell data
* Support for touch devices

== Working With Sheets

A "spreadsheet" in reality works on a workbook, which contains one or more worksheets.
You can create new sheets and delete existing ones with `createNewSheet()` and `deleteSheet()`, respectively.

[.example]
--
[source,java]
----
// Recreate the initial sheet to configure it
Spreadsheet sheet = new Spreadsheet();
sheet.createNewSheet("New Sheet", 10, 5);
sheet.deleteSheet(0);
----
--

When a sheet is deleted, the index of the sheets with a higher index is decremented by one.
When the active worksheet is deleted, the next one by index is set as active, or if there are none, the previous one.

All operations on the spreadsheet content are done through the currently active worksheet.
You can set an existing sheet as active with `setActiveSheetIndex()`.

== Working with an Apache POI Workbook

> If you have an Apache POI workbook created otherwise, you can wrap it toSpreadsheet with the respective constructor.

Reviewer: Can the meaning be made clearer?

> If you have an Apache POI workbook created otherwise, you can wrap it toSpreadsheet with the respective constructor.

Reviewer: Can the meaning of this sentence be made clearer?

You can access the underlying workbook with `getWorkbook()`.

> However, if you make modifications to the workbook, you must allow the spreadsheet update itself by calling appropriate update methods for the modified element or elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you make modifications to the workbook, you must allow the spreadsheet to update itself by calling appropriate update methods for the modified element or elements.
```

> However, if you make modifications to the workbook, you must allow the spreadsheet update itself by calling appropriate update methods for the modified element or elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you make modifications to the workbook, you must allow the spreadsheet to update itself by calling appropriate update methods for the modified element or elements.
```

== Configuration
The Spreadsheet object provides the following configuration of various UI elements:

[cols="1,4"]
|===
| Element | Description

|Grid lines
|Cells are by default separated by grid lines. You can control their visibility with `setGridlinesVisible()`.

|Column and row headings
|Headings for rows and columns display the row and column indexes, and allow selecting and resizing the rows and columns.
You can control their visibility with `setRowColHeadingsVisible()`.

|Top bar
|The top bar displays the address of the currently selected cell and an editor for cell content. You can control its visibility with `setFunctionBarVisible()`.

|Bottom bar
|The bottom bar displays sheet's names and buttons for navigating between those.
You can control its visibility with `setSheetSelectionBarVisible()`.

|Report mode
|In the report mode, both the top and bottom bars are hidden. You can enable the mode with `setReportStyle()`.

|===

== Frozen Row and Column Panes

> You can define panes of rows and columns that are frozen in respect to scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define panes of rows and columns that are frozen when scrolling.
```

sheet.createCell(1, 1, "Copernicus");
sheet.createCell(1, 2,
    new GregorianCalendar(1999,2,19).getTime());

// Style the date cell
sheet.getCell(1,2).setCellStyle(dateStyle);

----
--

== Cell Font Style

Cells can be styled by different fonts.
A font definition not only includes a particular typeface, but also weight (bold or normal), emphasis, underlining, and other such font attributes.

[.example]
--
[source,java]
----
// Create some column captions in the first row
sheet.createCell(0, 0, "First Name");
sheet.createCell(0, 1, "Last Name");
sheet.createCell(0, 2, "Born");

// Create a bold font
Font bold = sheet.getWorkbook().createFont();
bold.setBold(true);

// Set the cells in the first row as bold
for (int col=0; col <= 2; col++)
    sheet.getCell(0, col).getCellStyle().setFont(bold);

----
--

== Cell Comments

Cells may have comments that are indicated by ticks in the corner of the cells, and the comment is shown when mouse is hovered on the cells.
`TheSpreadsheetDefaultActionHandler` described in <<Default Context Menu>> enables adding comments from the context menu.

A new comment can be added through the POI API of a cell, with `addComment()`.

> For a detailed example for managing cell comments, we refer to the `InsertDeleteCellCommentAction` and `EditCellCommentAction` classes employed by the default action handler.

Reviewer: Can the meaning of this sentence be made clearer?

== Merging Cells

You can merge spreadsheet cells with any variant of the `addMergedRegion()` method in Spreadsheet.

The `SpreadsheetDefaultActionHandler` described in <<Default Context Menu>> enables merging selected cells from the context menu.

Previously merged cells can be split with `removeMergedRegion()`.
The method takes as its parameter a region index.
You can search for a particular region through the POI Sheet API for the active sheet, which you can obtain with `getActiveSheet()`.
The `getMergedRegion()` returns a merged region by index and you can iterate through them by knowing the number of regions, which you can find out with `getNumMergedRegions()`.

== Hyperlinks

Hyperlinks in cells can point to other worksheets in the current workbook, or to external URLs.
Links must be added through the POI API.
Spreadsheet provides default handling for hyperlink clicks, which can be overridden with a `customHyperlinkCellClickHandler`, which you assign `withsetHyperlinkCellClickHandler()`.

== Popup Buttons in Cells
You can add a popup button in a cell, clicking which opens a drop-down popup overlay, which can contain any Vaadin components.

> You can add a popup button with any of the `setPopup()` methods for different cell addressing forms.

Reviewer: Can it be made clearer what "different cell addressing forms" refers to?

A popup button is a PopupButton object, which is a regular Vaadin component container, so you can add any components to it by `addComponent()`.

> You can create popup buttons for a row of cells in a cell range by defining a table, as described in link:https://vaadin.com/docs/v8/spreadsheet/spreadsheet-table#spreadsheet.table[Tables Within Spreadsheets].

Reviewer 2: Are these popups supported yet? At least the link to Vaadin 8 docs needs to be removed.
